# sbt-hackling

Hackathon implementation of the Libling concept.

## Libling

Libling is an alternative way to add dependencies to your project. It is intended for simple snippets of code or small libraries (for now).

## Motivation

* publishing simple libraries is unnecessarily hard in JVM land. why not just push to GitHub and be done with it?
* even when code is source compatible with multiple Scala versions, need to crossbuild it for multiple scala versions
* with scala.js and scala native, even more cross building is necessary
* versioning is hacky. a git commit graph is closer to what's going on, a commit hash uniquely identifies a version and its history
* take advantage of distributed VCS possibilities. cloning a repo mirrors all the versions so far, can be cashed. Does not require single source of truth centralized infrastructure such as Maven Central.

## To use a libling

Add this plugin:

    addSbtPlugin("libling" % "sbt-hackling" % "1.0")

Add a libling source dependency:
       
    sourceDependencies += ...
    
## To build a libling

    sbt new libling/sbt-hackling.g8
    
### structure

A libling is just a bunch of code in a certain structure:

* `README.md` documentation root. can link to further docs in `/doc` directory.
* `/src`
    contains plain Scala sources, no main/ test/ etc
    always included on libling resolution
    we'll figure out later how to build more complicated stuff
* `/doc`
    .md sources - included by default. 
* `/test`
    tests included optionally   
* `/libling`
    * `lock`: the libling's own libling dependencies, including transitive dependencies.
    Commit hashes only. These are generated by the `liblingUpdate` task and should not be manually edited.
    A libling can only depend on other liblings. We'll figure out how to handle necessary binary deps (e.g. scala version) later. HOCON format.
    * `meta`: useful metadata where to look up the commit hashes. Can be generated by `liblingGenerateMetadata` task. HOCON format.

    